---
layout: post
title: Why I want to do research
date: 2024-01-01 15:09:00
description: Some thoughts on why I want to do research
tags: research
categories: thoughts
featured: true
---

I always dreamed of becoming on inventor. In 6th grade, I worked closely with an acccelerated learning teacher, Mrs. Smith, studying patents and how to get one. Sadly, 'inventor' isn't a major option at Georgia Tech, so I went with computer engineering due to its relevance to creating a real life Ironman. I switched to CS after one semester because CS enabled me to test my ideas and build things much fasters. Generally speaking, I believe CS is the fastest way to turn an idea into a reality.

I like *new*. I enjoy turning new things inside out until I understand them. I once thought this was a weakness of mine: that I couldn't ever settle on what sport I wanted to play or what hobby I wanted to engage in. As a child, I would be practicing roller hockey in our coldesac one week, then teaching myself to yoyo or complete a rubix cube, and then I would be grinding basketball drills until I could beat the taller kids. At my high school Senior Night soccer game, the announcer told the entire stadium I was triple majoring in "Math, Economics, and Computer Science" because I couldn't choose just one.


> Let's do an exercise: _Describe who you are without talking about your job, school, or hobbies_: I am curious, creative, and driven. I am dedicated to lifelong learning, because I want to know more, diversify my perspectives, and understand why things work the way they do. I enjoy exploring, in nature, new experiences, and even complex code/math. I am intune with my imaginitive side and always have an idea. I'm never bored. I am always striving to improve by even just 1% daily. I want the life that is truly life. I recognize that life is hard, and therefore, I enjoy doing hard things. I embrace pain in physical activity, recovery quickly from unfortunate circumstances, and see growth during moments of pain. I love my family and God.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/ironman.jpg" title="Ironman" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Because who doesn't love a good visual.
</div>

I like to think that I have what it takes to be a best in class researcher. I care about big picture things and often ask myself "how can we do this better?".

I have formal training and experience as a software engineer, so I can think in terms of scalability and worst case scenario. This experience is crucial to iteration in my experiments. Soon enough, the only limiting factor in my experiment time will be the ideation and planning phase.

I have many questions about machine learning. During my tenure at Georgia Tech, I've become quite good at quickly finding solutions to these questions or halting my train of thought when the research direction runs 'stale'.

### First Taste

My first taste with research was for my Capstone project through the Vertically Integrated Projects (VIP) program at Georgia Tech. The team I joined was Automated Algorithm Design. I applied out of the blue because it seems like the most technical and related to ML. Little did I know that this decision would land me a job at Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI) and inspired a career in research.

Our project is detailed more in this post: [link](link)

### Where am I at now?

I am currently working at GTRI as a Machine Learning Research Assistant. I work 10-20 hours per week on top of school. Not only do I get paid 🤑, but this opportunity presents a time for me to test my research ideas in an industry setting to improve the efficiency of our machine learning models.

I am currently working on improve our model with a DINOv2 backbone, Token Merging, Layer Decay regularization, and a sparser segmentation head. You can read more about that [here](link).

I read 3-5 research papers a week and meet with 1-3 PhD students per week. I am working on my experiment design and speeding up my testing.

### Here are some of my current questions:

- How can I transfer the weights (and therefore knowledge) of a much larger pretrained model into a smaller model of similar architecture without retraining? What about a vastly different architecture landscape?
- Training architecture: what if I altered a models architecture for 1 forward pass, then altered a models weights for 1 forward/backward pass?
- Initialize models with weights that have seen both data subsets (ex. two splits of MNIST that contains different digits). If training two models on each dataset, how many passes until it’s forgotten? Can I unlearn a single digit?
- Dataset generation models: Given just like 3 samples, how can I create millions of them?
- How could I train an network to interpret images of graphs? Currently, chatGPT can't even detect a simple cycle in an image.

The list goes on.

### Here are some traps I don't want to fall into:

- Becoming a corporate slave
- Research that gets put on the shelf and is never used (after thesis concludes, etc)
- Burnout

### Here is what I want to do:

- Answer the important questions
- Make a lasting impact
- Become an expert in computer vision, generative AI field
- Build trust worthy AI that can be deployed in high consequence settings

### Academic or Industry?

For the next 5 to 10 years my calling is in industry research because I want to see my ideas realized in products that affect many people worldwide. I currently think that Meta's Foundational AI Research (FAIR) team is one of the best research programs in the world. It is a mission I strive to join and contribute to. I know this will take time and I look forward to the journey in proving my worth to the team.

Long term, I aim to move to academic research and teaching. My experience as a teaching assistant was a fufilling one. My favorite part was when students get that 'lightbulb moment'.

### The Gameplan

As of the past 5 months, I have been surveying the field to find what is ‘most important to me’. I want my master’s thesis to be important and I aim to grab a low hanging fruit of a much larger problem that I can tackle for my PhD. I’ve been meeting with PhD students to learn more about their research path and perspective. I am most interested in image/video generation and making state of the art models more efficient.
